JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight, we
take a deep
dive into the many questions
about connections
between Russian officials and
the Trump campaign,
as investigations move forward
and new revelations
surface.
Then, we visit the Midwest to
find out what
Trump supporters in Michigan are
saying about
his first two months in office.
THERESA JOHNS, Trump Supporter:
What he has
said is the truth.
And I don't think that he has
reason to lie.
What does he have to gain by
lying?
Nothing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also ahead, in
the final part
of our series exploring new PTSD
research:
how explosions from battle may
have a direct
link to the causes of PTSD.
DR.
DANIEL PERL, Uniformed Services
University
of the Health Sciences: When the
explosion
goes off, it forms what's called
a blast wave.
And so here you have a high --
high-pressure
pulse blasting through this
delicate instrument
called the brain.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's Friday.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
are here to
analyze the week's news.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The request for
legal immunity
from President Trump's former
national security
adviser drew sharply different
responses today.
Michael Flynn said he will
cooperate with
congressional Russia probes, but
only if he's
spared from the possibility of
prosecution.
Mr. Trump tweeted Flynn should
ask for immunity
because -- quote -- "This is a
witch-hunt
by the media and Democrats."
But Adam Schiff, the top
Democrat on the House
Intelligence Committee, said
it's too early
to consider such a deal.
We will take a closer look at
the investigations
right after the news summary.
President Trump moved to reshape
American
trade policy today, signing a
pair of executive
orders.
One initiates a review of U.S.
trade deficits.
The other looks to increase the
collection
of duties on imports.
Mr. Trump said the orders --
quote -- "set
the stage for a great revival of
American
manufacturing."
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson
today warned
NATO allies to boost their
defense spending
within the next two months.
During Tillerson's first meeting
with his
alliance counterparts in
Brussels, he said
Washington is contributing a --
quote -- "disproportionate
share" to defense.
But Germany's foreign minister,
Sigmar Gabriel,
balked at the call, saying that
NATO's spending
targets are neither -- quote --
"reachable
nor desirable."
There's word that the European
Union may be
open to talks later this year on
its future
relationship with Britain.
But draft guidelines issued
today say that
the British -- quote --
"disentanglement"
from the bloc must be settled
first.
Britain's Prime Minister Theresa
May wanted
talks on a future trade deal
with the E.U.
to start quickly.
But in Malta today, the
president of the European
council, Donald Tusk, said that
won't happen.
DONALD TUSK, European Council
President: Once,
and only once we have achieved
sufficient
progress on the withdrawal can
we discuss
the framework for our future
relationship.
Starting parallel talks on all
issues at the
same time, as suggested by some
in the U.K.,
will not happen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile,
Scotland's first
minister has formally requested
a second popular
referendum on its independence
from the U.K.
Britain's government has said
that it will
deny the request.
In Venezuela, violence erupted
today amid
the country's deepening
political crisis.
It followed the Supreme Court's
move to dissolve
the country's opposition-led
congress, a move
widely condemned as a power
grab.
In the capital, Caracas, scores
of students
squared off against police in
riot gear, who
retaliated with batons and
buckshot.
A number of people were
arrested.
In Pakistan, a suicide car bomb
near a Shiite
mosque today killed at least 24
people.
It happened in a key northwest
town near the
country's border with
Afghanistan.
The powerful explosion damaged
vehicles and
nearby shops.
More than 100 people were
wounded.
A breakaway Taliban faction
claimed responsibility.
The Trump administration imposed
a new round
of sanctions on North Korea
today.
They targeted 11 North Korean
individuals
and one company that helped to
finance or
develop weapons of mass
destruction.
The Treasury Department said the
people were
working as agents of the North
Korean regime
in Russia, China, Vietnam, and
Cuba.
Back in this country, traffic
was snarled
for miles in Atlanta today,
after a fire brought
caused the collapse of part of
heavily traveled
Interstate 85.
Officials are still trying to
determine how
yesterday's fire started.
Authorities closed the section
before it collapsed,
and there were no injuries.
But commuters in this densely
populated area
will likely have to find new
routes for months.
On Wall Street, stocks ended the
month on
a down note.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 65 points
to close at 20663.
The Nasdaq fell more than two,
and the S&P
500 slipped five.
For the week, both the Dow and
the S&P 500
gained a fraction of a percent.
The Nasdaq rose more than a
percent.
The private company SpaceX made
history last
night by successfully launching
and retrieving
its first recycled rocket.
Rocket boosters normally drop
into the Atlantic
Ocean after liftoff and are not
retrieved.
This was the Falcon 9 booster's
second trip
into orbit, launching from Cape
Canaveral,
Florida.
It landed on the bullseye of an
ocean platform
and it could be used a third
time.
And a rare photo of Harriet
Tubman has been
acquired at auction by the
Library of Congress
and the Smithsonian's National
Museum of African
American History and Culture.
It shows a younger seated
Tubman.
Most photos of the Underground
Railroad hero
were taken later in her life.
It was part of an album that
sold for more
than $160,000.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
what do we
know and don't know about
Russia's influence
in the 2016 election?; the
potential human
toll of the U.S. loosening
restrictions on
military airstrikes; Trump
supporters grade
the president on his first
months in office;
and much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It seems every
day, sometimes
every hour, there are new
developments in
the inquiry into connections
between President
Trump, his associates and
Russia.
It's hard to keep it all
straight.
But, because it's important,
we're going to
give it a try.
Here to talk through what we
know, and what
we don't, are correspondents
John Yang and
Lisa Desjardins.
And thank you both for being
here to do this.
Lisa, I'm going to start with
you.
Remind us, where did all this
come from?
What was the origin of Russia's
interest in
our elections?
LISA DESJARDINS: Let's start
with 2011.
That's when Hillary Clinton, the
then secretary
of state, spoke out criticizing
Russian elections.
Vladimir Putin, president of
Russia, then
reacted, saying that she was
interfering and
she was helping protesters, and
she was trying
to have an impact on the Russian
election.
Then we can flash forward to
last summer.
That's when the FBI became aware
of hacking
into the Democratic National
Committee, then
to October.
Then we have a conclusion from
the director
of national intelligence that
Russian officials
were in fact trying to interfere
with our
election.
And then just this month, we
heard from FBI
Director Comey about their
investigation,
making this rare public
statement:
JAMES COMEY, FBI Director: The
FBI, as part
of our counterintelligence
mission, is investigating
the Russian government's efforts
to interfere
in the 2016 presidential
election.
And that includes investigating
the nature
of any links between individuals
associated
with the Trump campaign and the
Russian government.
LISA DESJARDINS: A very rare
statement in
the middle of an investigation.
Bottom line, Judy, we know that
our intelligence
on the U.S. side has concluded
that Russia
tried to interfere with the
election.
And that includes now they're
investigating
things like trying to send fake
news to particular
states like Michigan and
Pennsylvania.
The biggest question now seems
to be, was
the Trump -- were any Trump
associates, any
Trump campaign officials
involved, did they
know about this, did they
collude with Russia
at all?
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, John, what
is known about
any links, any connections
between Trump,
Trump's campaign and Russian
officials?
JOHN YANG: It is a spider web,
Judy.
You have got campaign officials
who either
had or have business relations
with Russia
like former campaign chairman
Paul Manafort,
adviser Carter Page.
You had others in the campaign
who were in
contact with the Russian
ambassador to the
United States either during the
campaign or
during the transition, adviser
J.D. Gordon,
his son-in-law, Jared Kushner,
former National
Security Adviser Michael Flynn,
and Attorney
General Jeff Sessions, Sessions,
of course,
who's recused himself from this
investigation
because of that contact.
And then there's Roger Stone,
who somehow
got advanced word about these
hacked Hillary
Clinton e-mails, e-mails that
the -- our United
States intelligence says came
from the Russian
intelligence, was hacked by the
Russian intelligence.
Now, could this all be a
coincidence?
Sure, but a lot of these people
have been
less than forthcoming about
these contacts.
I mean, just last month, Judy,
you asked Carter
Page whether he had met any
Russian official
during the campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Did you have any
meetings?
I'll ask again.
Did you have any meetings last
year with Russian
officials in Russia, outside
Russia, anywhere?
CARTER PAGE, Former Trump
Campaign Foreign
Policy Adviser: I had no
meetings, no meetings.
JOHN YANG: And, of course,
eventually, he
acknowledged that wasn't true.
He met the ambassador at the
Republican Convention.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And he said that
after he had
told me just the opposite.
But, Lisa, what about financial
connections
between the president, people
around him and
Russia?
LISA DESJARDINS: The president
was, for so
much of his life, the CEO of the
Trump Organization.
So, let's look at the business
side of the
Trump Organization here to
Russia.
The White House stresses that
there are few
direct connections.
One, the president has sold some
real estate
to a few Russians.
But, two, probably the
connection most people
know about is that Mr. Trump
hosted the Miss
Universe Pageant in Moscow.
That was in 2013.
But there's more to it than
that, some more
indirect kind of connections.
We know that among the other
business ties,
Donald J. Trump Jr. said in 2008
that, of
their businesses all across the
board, that
Russians were pouring in money.
He thought that the Russians
were among their
most important clients at that
time.
Now, Russia was emerging as an
important economy
then.
So, make of that what you will.
But, second, the Trumps have
looked into real
estate deals in Russia going
back to 1987.
Donald Trump visited Russia in
1996.
And then on that 2013 trip, he
also looked
for potential sites for a Trump
Hotel in Moscow.
That never came to bear.
Finally, last summer, it's a
story people
paid attention to that adds to
the confusion
here.
We know there are reports from
CNN and others
that investigators looked into a
Russian bank
repeatedly trying to contact
servers in Trump
Organization.
The Trump Organization says they
didn't know
anything about that.
And it's not clear if that was
for business
reasons or what was going on
there.
It was a one-way connection, but
many of them
from a Russian bank to the Trump
Organization.
One final connection, Judy,
family businesses?
The Kushners also have a family
business,
Kushner Properties.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's the
son-in-law.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's Jared
Kushner, the
son-in-law, that we have heard
about from
John.
And he -- Jared Kushner, in
addition to meeting
with the Russian ambassador,
also in December
met with the head of a Russian
bank which
is under sanctions right now.
The White House says that was a
diplomatic
meeting, but the Russian bank
says it was
for business reasons.
So, it's something to look at.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, John, the
other -- one
of the other names you
mentioned, of course,
Michael Flynn, so much attention
around him.
He was briefly the president's
national security
adviser.
Then he stepped down.
What's known about his role in
all this?
JOHN YANG: Well, right now, he
of course has
asked -- or told the Senate
Intelligence Committee
that he's willing to testify if
he gets immunity.
The committee rejected that
request for now.
They said it's too early, that
they generally
like to find out what they can
without immunity
first.
He was a surrogate and an
adviser in the campaign.
He became well-known for both
attacking Hillary
Clinton in the campaign and
advocating closer
ties with Russia.
And, as you say, he was very
briefly the national
security adviser.
He had to resign after it turned
out he had
misled White House officials
about some of
his contacts with the Russian
ambassador during
the transition.
Now, his attorney says he
certainly has quite
a story to tell.
But it's not quite clear what
that story is
or who it's about.
This morning, the president
tweeted that he
thought that Flynn should get
immunity and
should testify.
This afternoon at the White
House briefing,
Sean Spicer was asked if the
president had
anything to fear from that
testimony.
Sean Spicer had a one-word
answer: "Nope."
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, well,
so much to
follow.
Where does this go from here,
though, Lisa?
LISA DESJARDINS: All right,
let's look forward
a little bit.
We know there are three
investigations under
way right now that we know.
That is FBI investigation, the
House Intelligence
investigation and the Senate
Intelligence
investigation.
We expect all of those to take
months, maybe
many months.
And that brings us, I think, to
our final
name of this look at the who's
who in this
Russia situation.
That's Devin Nunes.
The congressman from California
chairs the
House Intelligence Committee and
their Russian
investigation.
In the past two weeks, he said
he was made
aware of intelligence from a
source that he's
not naming that U.S. spy
agencies somehow
caught surveillance of some
Trump associates
and some Trump White House
officials potentially
inadvertently.
He took that information and
talked -- spoke
to the president about it, but
didn't share
that with his own Intelligence
Committee.
That is raising questions,
especially from
Democrats, who are calling for
him to recuse
himself.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But he said it
didn't have
to do with Russia, right?
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
That's right.
But because he's chairing this
Russia investigation,
the question is, is he too close
to the president,
who's he watching out for the
most?
Democrats say he has a conflict
of interests.
And, of course, Mr. Nunes said
to me and to
other reporters that, no, he
feels like he
can chair this investigation.
JOHN YANG: And now, of course,
this has embroiled
the White House in the
suspicions that the
administration was the source of
this information
for Congressman Nunes.
This afternoon, Adam Schiff, the
top Democrat
on the Intelligence Committee,
went to the
White House to look at documents
that the
White House says they have
uncovered that
relates to this coincidental or
incidental
surveillance.
It's not clear yet whether or
not this is
the same material that Chairman
Nunes was
shown.
LISA DESJARDINS: And, again, the
material
might not be about Russia.
It's a question of the man
leading the Russia
investigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There are so many
strands in
this story to follow.
The two of you are on the case.
We thank you.
And I feel like we have brought
our audience
up to date.
Thank you very much.
Lisa Desjardins, John Yang,
thank you.
During the presidential
campaign, candidate
Trump promised to give the U.S.
military more
freedom to attack terrorist
targets around
the world.
Yesterday, it was announced that
President
Trump made good on that promise.
Hari Sreenivasan has the story.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Among the
countries where
the U.S. is fighting terrorism
are Iraq, Yemen
and Somalia.
Now the president has approved
the Pentagon's
plan to beef up its targeting of
Al-Shabaab
in Somalia, giving the military
greater latitude
to decide when and where to
strike.
For more on all of this, we turn
to Sarah
Sewall.
She served as undersecretary of
state for
civilian security, democracy and
human rights
during the Obama administration.
She's written extensively about
military operations
and civilian casualties.
She's now at Johns Hopkins
University.
Ms. Sewall, I want to first ask
-- just walk
us through what the changes are
that the Pentagon
just announced.
SARAH SEWALL, Former State
Department Official:
Well, essentially, President
Obama had created
two categories for thinking
about the use
of force in the context of the
war on terror.
One was more like targeted
killing with more
restricted types of targets that
you could
both choose and were forced to
identify, and
it controlled the effects of
those uses of
force more closely.
The other is more like what
Americans would
understand as war, general
hostilities.
And what has happened is, the
president -- the
current president has now moved,
according
to reports, moved the Somalia
engagement of
U.S. forces from the category of
more targeted
uses of force to that of general
hostilities.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It says that
the new rules
says it's OK to kill civilians
if necessary
and proportionate.
What does that mean?
In the past, it used to be if
they were threatening
Americans.
That doesn't seem the case now.
SARAH SEWALL: Sure.
That's what I mean by the kinds
of targets
that are chosen.
The former category required
that only those
who were a direct threat to
Americans could
be targeted.
Now they can be targeted if
they're members
of an organization that's an
associated force
with the perpetrators of 9/11.
It has huge impacts for civilian
casualties,
because the former standard of
using the use
of targeting according to a near
certainty
of not killing civilians has now
been relaxed.
But, of course, the laws of war
still apply,
so uses of force still have to
be proportional
and they still have to be
discriminate.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The military
has complained
for quite some time, even
through the Obama
administration, that there was
too much red
tape between when they actually
found the
target and the amount of hoops
that they had
to jump through to try to take
action on it.
SARAH SEWALL: That's right,
Hari.
I think it is fair to say that
the U.S. military,
like most militaries, will
always seek greater
latitude for the use of force.
It's the role of civilian
authorities to make
sure that America's broader
strategic interests
are balanced against tactical
possibilities
for gain.
And here is where I think
President Obama's
decision to make sure that the
uses of force
didn't have blowback, either by
virtue of
killing civilians unnecessarily,
or by feeding
into the ISIS narrative that the
U.S. was
seeking to fight a war against
Islam, or by
allowing a slippery slope for
the use of military
force, which is, I think, a
legitimate concern
that we should be asking about
in the context
of moving toward general
hostilities for engagement
in Somalia.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The U.S.
military is also
going to say, listen, we go out
of our way
more than anybody else to try to
minimize
civilian casualties, so what's
the harm in
giving them a little bit more
leeway if they
are going to follow the same
protocols?
SARAH SEWALL: Well, they are not
going to
follow the same protocols.
The protocols are very
different, Hari.
And, yes, the U.S. military is
better than
almost anyone else at avoiding
civilian harm.
But we need to only look at the
use of airstrikes
in Mosul in Iraq to see that
there are huge
potentials for backlash that
come when you
relax those protocols.
And we can do extremely well, we
have done
extremely well at different
periods in our
history.
We know how to be discriminating
in the use
of airpower.
And part of what President
Obama's original
intent was to keep those
standards high as
much as possible.
So, we should be asking tough
questions when
the standards are relaxed.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Does the use
of or the ability
to use more force make our
troops any safer?
SARAH SEWALL: Well, I did a
study in Afghanistan
in 2010, and there was no
correlation between
the kinds of standards that
protected civilians
and the protection that our
forces enjoyed.
What changed was the way we went
about pursuing
our objectives.
Sometimes, we took more time.
Sometimes, we took an indirect
route.
But the U.S. military can do a
phenomenal
job at avoiding civilian harm.
But it does require civilian
leadership to
emphasize that as a matter of a
priority.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Sarah Sewall
with Johns Hopkins, thanks so
much.
SARAH SEWALL: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Mark Shields
and David Brooks analyze the
week's news;
the search for what triggers
PTSD; and a doctor's
take on why affirmative action
could be hurting
Asian Americans.
But first: The fallout from last
week's failed
Republican effort to repeal the
Obama health
care is still being felt across
the political
landscape nationally.
President Trump's approval
rating now hovers
around 40 percent in tracking
polls.
In Michigan, a state he won,
Trump supporters
whom William Brangham spoke to
offered their
own assessments of the
president's first two
months in office.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
Sixty-four-year-old Randall
Shelton is a self-described
independent and
angry white man.
For him, Trump's election wasn't
a surprise,
even though Trump wasn't
Shelton's first choice.
RANDALL SHELTON, Trump Voter:
Well, I wish
there had been other candidates,
but I chose
the one that I believe was going
to do the
right thing.
I thought he was going to do and
I still believe
he's going to do the right
thing.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Shelton lives
in Allen Park,
a blue-collar suburb of Detroit.
Twelve years ago, he got hurt
working at the
local General Motors plant, and
he's been
on disability and off work ever
since.
He thinks Democrats and
Republicans are blocking
the very things Trump was
elected to do, like
bringing back jobs and fixing
immigration.
But Shelton says the president
is also partly
to blame for some of his early
failures.
RANDALL SHELTON: It seems like,
once he got
in there, all he wants to do is
play golf
and take vacations and tweet.
If he'd shut up and just do what
he said he's
going to do and stay off the
Twitter, and
take care of business in
Washington, he would
probably be a whole lot better
off.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Thirty miles
away in Novi,
Michigan, we found a small,
ardent group of
supporters who remain totally
committed to
the president.
DON EBBEN, Trump Supporter: I
have been completely
blown away, completely
surprised.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In a good way?
DON EBBEN: In a good way.
MAN: I still find him a little
bit of abrasive.
But I'm willing to forgive it.
I'm willing to look past it,
because he's
the president of the United
States.
He's leading the direction from
whence we
have come.
And that's important to me.
MESHAWN MADDOCK, Trump
Supporter: We were
Trump before Trump was Trump
here in Michigan.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Meshawn
Maddock helped organize
this gathering.
She ran a Facebook group called
Michigan Women
For Trump.
MESHAWN MADDOCK: It was when he
talked about
getting rid of the people within
our own party
that are the problem.
That was what motivated me.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Maddock likes
that Trump
is disrupting what she sees as a
broken political
system and that he's using
social media in
a way that no president has ever
done before.
MESHAWN MADDOCK: I don't believe
anybody is
monitoring him on Twitter.
It's all him.
And what I love about is that
there is no
middle man anymore.
So I think he's completely
changing how the
media is going to work and serve
the people.
And that's not necessarily a bad
thing.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Theresa Johns
originally
wanted Ted Cruz, but later came
around to
the Trump camp, even though a
recent Quinnipiac
poll.
Showed that six in 10 Americans
say the president
is dishonest, Johns is not one
of them.
THERESA JOHNS, Trump Supporter:
Trump has
never, ever said anything that
has not come
to pass.
It's not.
He's always said -- what he has
said is the
truth.
And I don't think that he has
reason to lie.
What does he have to gain by
lying?
Nothing.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We also asked
about the
various allegations surrounding
Russia, that
Russia seems to have tried to
undermine Hillary
Clinton's campaign and that
members of the
Trump campaign may have close
ties to Russia.
Does that bother you at all?
MESHAWN MADDOCK: I hate to say
it but it doesn't
bother me.
I don't want to focus on Russia.
I just think it's smoke and
mirrors.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So you don't
think there's
any of these allegations?
MESHAWN MADDOCK: I don't think
there's anything
to it.
I think it's just they -- they
are going to
try to do anything they can to
try to bring
this man down.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Few expected
President Trump
to win here in Michigan, but it
was the last
state he visited on the campaign
trail and
one of the first he came back to
after he
was elected.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
Thank you to the incredible
people of Michigan.
LINDA BRANDIS, Trump Supporter:
This is the
type of guy that is crude and
he's loud and
he is not politically correct.
But he says everything we think.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In Commerce,
Michigan, Linda
Brandis, who's an active member
of the state's
Tea Party, remains thankful the
president
won.
But she also just reached out
directly to
him about some growing concerns
she has.
LINDA BRANDIS: I sent him an
e-mail last night.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: What did it
say?
LINDA BRANDIS: It said, I voted
for you because
I'm concerned about health care.
And I wanted to remind him that
it was the
grassroots that put him in the
White House,
and it can be the grassroots
that takes him
out of the White House.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Brandis was
disappointed
that Trump didn't push initially
for a full
repeal of Obamacare, and then,
when the Republican-led
Congress couldn't pass their
bill, the president
just seemed to move onto other
priorities.
LINDA BRANDIS: In his mind, he
really thought,
oh, I can go in and I'm just
going to fix
this.
And it's not that easy a problem
to fix.
And I don't appreciate the
childish attitude
of, it's my way or the highway.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Guy Gordon
hosts the afternoon
talk show on WJR in Detroit.
His show follows Rush
Limbaugh's.
We were there the afternoon the
Republican
health care bill collapsed, and
the phones
lit up with callers, like Beth
from Macomb
County.
WOMAN: I'm disgusted with the
conservative
Republicans.
They need to get their heads out
of their
you-know-where.
GUY GORDON, Radio Talk Show
Host: There is
a heartland here in America that
feels overlooked,
disrespected, mocked for their
beliefs.
They have also seen their jobs
leave.
And there's no greater window
into that than
Macomb County.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Macomb County
is famous
in political circles, because,
for decades,
this area voted overwhelmingly
for Democrats.
But then in the 1980s, Ronald
Reagan campaigned
here and he turned those
Democratic voters
to the Republican side.
This area became known as the
home of the
Reagan Democrats.
JACK BRANDENBURG (R), Michigan
State Senator:
You are right now, at this
moment, sitting
in the birthplace of the Reagan
Democrats.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: State Senator
Jack Brandenburg
says he was the first elected
official in
Michigan to formally endorse
Donald Trump.
And he believes that following
Reagan's path
through Macomb County, which had
gone to President
Obama in both 2008 and 2012, was
key to Trump's
success.
Trump won Macomb County by more
than 48,000
votes, but carried the entire
state by less
than 12,000.
JACK BRANDENBURG: If you do the
math, Macomb
County put him over the top in
Michigan and
quite possibly gave him the
presidency.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Closer to
downtown Detroit,
the lingering scars of the
area's economic
crisis are everywhere.
CORON BENTLEY, Trump Supporter:
Just about
everybody in this neighborhood
has basically
voted Democrat, but I tell
people all the
time, what has 50-plus years of
Democratic
policies done for our
communities?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Fewer than 5
percent of
voters in Detroit picked
President Trump,
but Coron Bentley, who works for
Ford Motor
Company, supported him.
He says he gets a lot of grief
from friends
and family for being a black
Republican, but
he's glad to have voted for the
president,
and he says it's already paying
off.
CORON BENTLEY: There was talk of
them building
a brand-new $700 million plant
in Mexico,
but, instead, they decided to
invest that
money in the plant that I work
at.
As Herbert Hoover once said of
all people,
prosperity is right around the
corner.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Bentley says
that optimism
stems from Ford's recent
decision to reinvest
more than a billion dollars into
three Michigan
plants.
President Trump applauded the
announcement
on Twitter earlier this week,
saying car company
jobs are coming back to the U.S.
However, Ford said much of the
plan had been
in the works long before the
election.
Back in Allen Park, Randall
Shelton wants
the president to refocus on
cracking down
on illegal immigration and to
start acting
a little more presidential.
RANDALL SHELTON: So, you're
supposed to be
the president of the United
States.
Act like the president of the
United States.
Don't act like some braggart,
some spoiled
little rich kid, which you are,
and start
doing what you're supposed to be
doing.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Shelton says,
in the end,
he's still glad he voted for the
president
and hopes he will start turning
things around
in the weeks and months ahead.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham
in Detroit.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that brings
us to the analysis
of Shields and Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist Mark
Shields and
New York Times columnist David
Brooks.
Gentlemen, great report from
William Brangham
from Michigan.
David, a lot of these voters,
they still like
Donald Trump.
It's been a rough two months,
but they're
looking past that.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, he's got
still 80 percent
approval rating among
Republicans.
And that's the bind that a lot
of Republicans
in the House and the Senate
face, which is
that, if they cross Donald
Trump, that they
face some immediate heat back at
home.
I'm not sure he can go out and
defeat them
in two years, as he's threatened
to do.
But he's a popular guy still in
Republican
circles, but 35 percent, 40
percent approval
nationally.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What did you make
of that?
MARK SHIELDS: I think it was a
terrific piece
by William.
But I think, Judy, we have to
understand,
having missed that story last
November myself,
that Donald Trump...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Most of us did.
MARK SHIELDS: Donald Trump felt
the pain of
these people.
That's what he communicated to
them.
He acknowledged their existence.
He acknowledged what they had
been through,
and that, while the great -- big
numbers in
the country were great, the
stock market,
the unemployment, that these
were people who
felt themselves and experienced
being left
behind.
And he said, I would stand up
for you.
And I think they are still
giving him very
much the benefit of the doubt.
DAVID BROOKS: Imagine how
popular he would
be if he actually had some
policies to help
those people.
MARK SHIELDS: Right, as opposed
to a health
care policy which would have
taken 24 million
people off health care.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, David, we
heard one of
the women who voted for him in
Michigan say
she just thought this Russia
story, all the
tentacles of it, she said it
doesn't really
add up to anything for her.
And, yet, this week, it just
didn't seem to
stop.
You have got two sides of the
Congress, both
houses of Congress, going after
it, the FBI.
Now we learn more about what was
going on
inside the White House.
How damaging is this?
How much of a problem is it for
the president?
DAVID BROOKS: I really don't
know.
We have a tendency to get a
little overhyped
to some of the Trump scandals.
We go to outrage level 11 at
every moment.
And I think the Russia -- the
case is still
out how serious it is, whether
there's actual
ties between Russia and the
Trump campaign,
which I think is the core of it,
where Paul
Manafort came from, whether
there was any
money laundering, and things
like that.
There is a lot we don't know.
And I'm trying to not prejudge
it.
What we do know is, there's high
levels of
incompetence.
And we have a president who
tweeted this wiretapping
tweet which was completely
wrong.
That's incompetence.
We have this young man in the
National Security
Agency whose his boss tried to
get rid of,
Trump was preserved by Steve
Bannon, who was
involved in giving information
to Nunes, Chairman
Nunes.
We have Nunes himself, who is
behaving incompetently.
Forget he's too close to the
Trump campaign.
There is a way to conduct an
investigation.
And it's not to cancel hearings
willy-nilly.
It's not to go brief the guy
you're supposed
to be investigating.
It's not to create a civil war
within your
own committee.
And so we have just levels and
levels and
levels of just incompetence, of
people who
do not know how to play this
game.
And when that happens, you never
know what's
going to happen next.
And so I don't know if it's a
scandal in the
class of Watergate scandal, but
it's not inspiring
to see what we have been seeing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark, whether
it's incompetence
or something more than that, how
much is it
hurting the president?
MARK SHIELDS: It's hurting the
president,
Judy.
Everything in politics is a
poll.
If you want the ultimate poll,
forget Gallup,
forget NBC, Wall Street Journal
or anything
else.
On Monday, April 3, the baseball
season begins
in Washington, D.C.
And Donald Trump, former
baseball player,
proudly proclaiming his athletic
ability,
will not be there.
Why will he not be there?
Because he would be booed.
He would be booed loudly, he
would be booed
long.
And it would be would be seen
all over the
world, and it would be seen time
and time
again.
So, that's what it's done.
That's what it's doing.
That's what his presidency --
David's right.
This is a White House that
prizes loyalty
above ability, imagination,
experience, judgment.
And so, what do they do to the
one loyal supporter,
acolyte, apologist they have in
the entire
Congress and part of the
Intelligence Committees,
Devin Nunes, inspector Nunes of
California?
They bring him down to the White
House under
the cover of darkness on a
secret mission,
show him these documents that he
discovers.
And then he goes and reveals
them to the president
of the United States, even
though these documents
are shown to him by people who
work in the
White House for the president of
the United
States, including one of his
former employees.
They take his loyalty, turn him
into an absolute
butt of jokes.
He's defenseless.
He's unflinchingly loyal.
And he's incompetent.
So, what they set out to do was
to slow down
the investigation, which
suggests there is
something there.
And what they have done is
highlight, spotlight
and given a new energy and new
urgency to
it.
The testimony of FBI agent Clint
Watts before
the Senate Intelligence
Committee on Thursday
was compelling.
It was compelling about the
efforts and the
sabotaging by Russia of the
American democratic
process.
Anybody, Democrat, Republican,
should listen
to that and say, this is serious
stuff.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And this is --
so, whether
there is more there on Russia or
not, David,
this is one that's going to go
on.
And I think one of you mentioned
health care.
When we talked last week, we had
just learned
that the Republicans had pulled
the bill,
David, in the House of
Representatives.
But, this week, you have the
president criticizing
the conservative Freedom Caucus
members, naming
them, calling them out, singling
them out
by name, going after them and
the Democrats.
Is this a tactic, a strategy
that's likely
to cause them to bring back the
attempt to
repeal Obamacare successfully
and get that
done?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, first of
all, I highly
think it's unlikely they are
going to bring
it back.
The core problem, which was that
the Freedom
Caucus and the moderates wanted
a completely
opposite bill, that problem is
still there.
It's a structural problem.
The Republican Party does not
have a consensus
position on health care.
The decision to send these
tweets and to threaten
people like Mark Sanford and
other members
of the Freedom Caucus was
amateur hour, another
kindergarten mistake.
First of all, he's not going to
do it.
He's not going to run people
against somebody
in two years.
Second, if he did, it would be
highly unlikely
to be successful.
Even Franklin Roosevelt, at the
head of his
popularity, he once tried to run
against a
local person and lost all the
way across the
board, because people like their
-- they like
their local member.
And then, meanwhile, the Freedom
Caucus guys
are loving this today.
They are the little guy standing
up to -- the
little guy representing their
district.
And then their manhood has been
called into
question.
So, they can't back down now.
So, I found it completely
counterproductive.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark?
MARK SHIELDS: Judy, an old
friend of ours,
Les Francis from California,
said today, since
the collapse and the failure of
the Republicans
to -- that promised for four
consecutive elections
to repeal and replace Obamacare
as their first
act, and total abject failure,
that the Republicans
look more like the Donner Party
than they
do like the national governing
party.
For those who don't remember the
19th century,
the Donner Party were settlers
who got caught
in the Sierra Madres at winter
and ended up
practicing cannibalism to
survive.
And this is really -- it's been
a circular
firing squad ever since.
Donald Trump is attacking the
Freedom Caucus.
Paul Ryan is attacking the
Freedom Caucus
and suggesting that the worst
thing that could
happen was for the president to
work with
Democrats to solve a national
problem.
We have never had a speaker of
the House in
the history of the country say
that before.
To work for -- to solve a
national problem,
we won't work in a bipartisan
way.
JUDY WOODRUFF: About the
opposition.
MARK SHIELDS: Ryan has been
crippled by this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Really?
MARK SHIELDS: He has had
editorial upon editorial.
His approval rating has fallen
from 35 percent
to 21 percent.
And he's getting battered on all
sides.
I mean, Paul Ryan -- I know
David has great
respect and admiration for him
-- but he is
like a -- philosophically, he's
like a hammer.
And for the hammer, every
problem is a nail.
And for Paul Ryan, his solution
is invariably
cutting taxes on the wealthiest
Americans.
And he's tried to sell this tax
-- this health
care bill as a tax cut of a
trillion dollars
time and again in interviews.
And it knocked 24 million people
off of health
care.
And Donald Trump, who had been
the tribune
of these people, stood by,
uncuriously, uninterested,
and watched it happen.
And now he's blaming Paul Ryan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you want to
come to his
defense, briefly?
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: Well, no, I want
to blame Trump
more.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: No, I think the --
well, Paul
Ryan, I respect a lot of his
policies, but
I do think he's a bit locked in
the 1980s
intellectually.
But the problem, the core
problem here is
still with Donald Trump.
He doesn't have a theory of what
Trumpism
is.
And he doesn't have a strategy
for converting
his populist campaign into some
sort of legislative
agenda.
You could pick a right-wing
agenda and get
people all on the right and push
through a
pretty Republican agenda.
Or you could pick a populist
center-left,
and not worry about the Freedom
Caucus.
But he's managed to offend the
right, the
center and the left.
And so how many people -- how do
you get to
50 percent of that?
And you don't.
And so he -- I assume that, if
he -- he will
sometimes figure out and say,
OK, I have got
to be this kind of president or
that kind
of president.
But, right now, he's no kind of
president.
There's no -- it's not
center-right.
It's not center-left.
It's not far-right.
It's just chaos.
And so, somehow, he's got to
figure out, OK,
I have an actual strategy.
He doesn't have one right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, as he's
criticizing the
Democrats on health care, Mark,
he's counting
on at least some Democrats to
support his
Supreme Court nominee, Neil
Gorsuch.
Two of them have come forward
this week and
said -- but there are others who
you would
think the White House would be
counting on
who are saying they're not going
to vote for
him.
What does that nomination look
like right
now?
MARK SHIELDS: What it looks like
now is that
-- I think Clarence Thomas is
the only sitting
judge who was confirmed by fewer
than 60 votes.
He got 52.
And Neil Gorsuch will not reach
the 60 level.
And this will be, I think, a
dramatic moment,
when the -- they're going to
impose, the Republican
majority will impose the nuclear
deterrent,
the nuclear solution.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The so-called
nuclear rule
change.
MARK SHIELDS: A majority -- a
majority to
confirm a Supreme Court justice.
The question is, do they do it
on this one,
on Gorsuch, or on the next one?
But, no, I think that Democrats
-- Donald
Trump has done one thing.
He may not have energized
Republicans, but
he has certainly energized
Democrats and the
Democratic base.
And there's a sense of outrage,
a continuing
outrage over the fact that a
mild-mannered,
widely admired person of high
character and
principle, Merrick Garland, the
same things
they say about Neil Gorsuch, his
supporters
never even got a moment of a
hearing, never
had the decency to -- many, meet
to with him.
So there is a sense of vengeance
and anger
over that still brewing.
DAVID BROOKS: It's pure
vengeance.
It's an eye for an eye.
It's two wrongs make -- trying
to make a right.
But two wrongs do not make a
right.
Neil Gorsuch, it doesn't look
like he will
get 60.
But that has nothing to do with
Neil Gorsuch,
who is completely qualified and
almost a model
nominee.
And the fact the Democrats are
doing this,
maybe they can say, OK, well,
Republicans
did it to us.
What's fair is fair.
But it's wrong in both cases.
And the Democratic arguments
against Gorsuch
are pathetic.
Their substance of which -- the
core argument
is that he's the sort of judge a
Republican
candidate nominates for justice.
Well, of course.
He's -- a Republican won the
White House,
so that's what you're going to
get.
But there is no question about
his character,
about the mainstream nature of
his jurisprudence,
about his intelligence, about
his qualifications.
There's no question about any of
that.
And so to blow up the nuclear
option over
Gorsuch seems to be pointless
partisanship,
which will have longstanding
damage to the
country.
We have the 60 votes, so it
forces people
to think about being bipartisan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
DAVID BROOKS: Once we get rid of
that, you
never have to worry about it
again, if you're
in the majority.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It makes it a
more partisan...
MARK SHIELDS: You do admit that
he has not
been forthcoming in -- on the
question of
dark money, I mean, he has been
totally...
DAVID BROOKS: We will get to
that next week.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We are going to
get to that
next week.
MARK SHIELDS: Well, OK, but I'm
just not going
to let it pass like that, Judy.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you're
allowed to say that.
And so are you.
David Brooks, Mark Shields,
thank you both.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tonight, we
conclude our series
War on the Brain.
Special correspondent Soledad
O'Brien reports
on the efforts of researchers to
find the
cause of post-traumatic stress
disorder.
JACOB FADLEY, U.S. Army Veteran:
Having PTSD
is -- it's like being in a room
where you
have no control and everything's
going wrong.
There's a lot of anxiety.
It's a feeling of dread and
hopelessness.
Triggers are, for me, when I'm
in traffic.
There's a lot of stuff going on.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Jacob Fadley
served 12 years
and four tours in Iraq and
Afghanistan.
He was a combat photographer in
the Army.
He spent time close to
heart-thumping blasts.
Yet he came home without a
scratch -- on the
outside.
Did you think you had
post-traumatic stress?
JACOB FADLEY: I think, -- no, I
knew I had
PTSD, but I never wanted to say
that, because,
when you say it, then you have
to deal with
it.
DR.
DANIEL PERL, Uniformed Services
University
of the Health Sciences: She's
cutting very,
very thin ribbon of sections of
this portion
of the brain, the specimen.
She will put it in the water
bath.
And it will spread out.
Look at that.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Wow.
Dr. Daniel Perl has a clue as to
what's going
on inside the heads of veterans
like Jacob
Fadley.
He is a neuropathologist at the
Uniformed
Services University of the
Health Sciences,
an entity of the Department of
Defense.
He is studying how blast
exposure impacts
the brain.
DR.
DANIEL PERL: Now, this is from
an individual
who had been in an automobile
accident.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: He is studying
the brains
of people who suffered traumatic
brain injuries,
one group, civilians who
suffered impacts
to the head, another, soldiers
exposed to
blast shockwaves.
DR.
DANIEL PERL: Now let me show you
the same
procedure in roughly the same
area of the
brain, same stain.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Oh, wow.
DR.
DANIEL PERL: This is somebody
who'd been exposed
to an IED, to blasts.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: And is this --
a person clearly
has blast exposure.
Do they also have post-traumatic
stress disorder?
DR.
DANIEL PERL: Yes.
All of the cases that we looked
at had been
diagnosed with post-traumatic
stress disorder.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: While there's
growing evidence
of a link between traumatic
brain injuries
and post-traumatic stress
disorder, a connection
between PTSD and blast waves has
remained
elusive.
DR.
DANIEL PERL: When the explosion
goes off,
it forms what's called a blast
wave, which
is a high-pressure pulse that
expands out
from the blast in all directions
at the speed
of sound, approximately.
And so here you have a high --
high-pressure
pulse blasting through this
delicate instrument
called the brain.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: What does a
concussive blast
feel like?
JACOB FADLEY: It's just like a
an entire force
is being pushed through you,
something powerful,
too.
You know it's powerful.
You freeze, that your body just
kind of stops
and goes, what -- what is going
on?
And kind of, for me, it felt
like it was rebooting
itself.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Dr. Perl
believes this brown
scarring is a breakthrough
discovery, possible
evidence that blast exposure may
contribute
to PTSD.
DR.
DANIEL PERL: I have been looking
at brain
slides for over 40 years, and I
had never
seen this pattern before.
We thought, this must be
something very unique
and special to blast exposure.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: When you look
at this picture,
do you say this matches
someone's reporting
on the impact of post-traumatic
stress disorder?
DR.
DANIEL PERL: Sure.
It's widespread damage
throughout the cortex.
And it's our belief that, in
these areas with
the scarring, function is
compromised.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Fadley left the
military
in 2014, after his fourth
deployment.
MAN: What's another visual
component?
JACOB FADLEY: Rhythm.
MAN: Rhythm.
Rhythm.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Thirty-three
and eligible
for the G.I.
Bill, he thought studying film
at USC would
put his life back on track, but
just one month
into his first semester:
JACOB FADLEY: I didn't see the
train signal.
I didn't see that at all.
I made a left turn exactly as
the train was
coming.
I could feel blood pouring out
of me.
I knew I was dying.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: L.A. news media
reported
on his brush with death.
REPORTER: It's hard to believe,
but the man
driving the silver Hyundai with
Arizona plates
survived the crash that caused
this Metro
rail train to derail.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Fadley had
driven, accidentally,
into the path of an oncoming
commuter train.
To this day, he avoids this
intersection.
JACOB FADLEY: It's not
comfortable.
Yes, it's -- yes, it's -- it's
OK.
I mean, there's no reason to be
upset with
this.
I'm not -- I'm not upset.
I'm just anxious.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: It was finally
enough for
him to seek treatment for PTSD.
That sawdusty, brown pattern
that exists across
the brain in the slides that you
showed me,
an MRI doesn't pick that up?
A CAT scan doesn't pick that up?
DR.
DANIEL PERL: No.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: You can't see
that in a living
person?
JACOB FADLEY: It's not that it
isn't there.
It just doesn't have the
resolution to see
it.
We're going to need to use other
means.
We're going to have to develop
other approaches.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Dr. Perl's
research is just
in its infancy.
If confirmed, it would be
evidence that PTSD,
a psychological disorder, might
partly be
the result of physical harm.
That could change the way we
diagnose and
treat the disorder.
Do you think you will ever be
able to not
only identify it, but come up
with some kind
of a solution when you start
working in living
beings?
JACOB FADLEY: Well, that's,
that's the ultimate
objective.
We need to be able to find a
therapy for this.
We need to be able to find a way
to prevent
it.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: The Veterans
Administration
uses the diagnosis of the
American Psychiatric
Association for PTSD.
They call it a mental disorder,
to be treated
by drugs or therapy.
They don't consider it a
physical injury.
DR.
HAROLD KUDLER, Chief Consultant
for Mental
Health Services, Department of
Veterans Affairs:
A series of problems that happen
after you
have lived through an
overwhelming life event.
The problems involve things
intruding on you,
memories, images, nightmares,
flashbacks,
where you feel like you're
reliving that event.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: The VA's chief
mental health
consultant is Dr. Harold Kudler.
DR.
HAROLD KUDLER: I think, no
matter what we
find in the brain, in the blood,
on EEGs,
we're still going to have to
have these conversations
with people and talk about what
trauma means
to people as part of their
recovery.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Fadley's film
school thesis
is called "Into the Trenches"
and focuses
on his struggles.
WOMAN: Depression on a scale of
one to 10?
JACOB FADLEY: Three.
WOMAN: Anxiety on a scale of one
to 10?
JACOB FADLEY: Seven.
WOMAN: Feeling emotionally numb
or being unable
to have loving feelings for
those close to
you?
JACOB FADLEY: Quite a bit.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: Fadley hopes
research will
one day give him the comfort of
knowing what's
going wrong inside his head.
JACOB FADLEY: It makes you feel
like you're
not crazy.
You can point to something to
someone else
and say, do you see this?
This thing did it.
SOLEDAD O'BRIEN: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm
Soledad O'Brien in Los Angeles.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There is more
reporting on
PTSD, including four profiles of
military
veterans working through the
disorder.
That's at PBS.org/"NewsHour."
Finally tonight, doctor and
author Andrew
Lam offers his Humble Opinion of
how affirmative
action in college admissions
should evolve.
DR.
ANDREW LAM, Author: There are
lots of stereotypes
about Asian Americans.
I probably fit some of them.
I did well in school.
I played a couple instruments.
I went to Yale and became a
doctor.
I now volunteer to interview
Yale applicants
each year.
My ties to the college are
strong, especially
since my dad also went there in
the 1960s.
At the time, there were only
about 10 Asians
in his class.
Today, Asians make up about a
fifth of the
students on campus.
In fact, there are now so many
Asians at elite
colleges that many Asians fear
affirmative
action makes colleges hold them
to a higher
standard.
Asian students straight out ask
me if being
Asian will hurt their chances,
or if it's
better to mark their race as
other, instead
of Asian.
Seriously?
We have reached the point where
kids are afraid
to admit their own ethnicity?
It's true.
And, sadly, it appears their
concerns are
not unfounded.
One study showed Asians had to
score higher
on the SAT than all other
ethnicities to get
into top colleges.
In a recent lawsuit, Harvard was
accused of
using race quotas and
maintaining a cap on
Asian enrollment for decades.
To me, the worst part of this
isn't that some
kid who looks like my son won't
get into the
Ivy League.
It's that truly disadvantaged
Asians get lumped
in with model minority Asians.
There are economically
disadvantaged students
from Laotian, Cambodian and
Hmong communities.
There are Pakistani and South
Asian students
whose parents scrape by working
100-hour weeks.
Affirmative action has the
potential to hurt
these individuals most of all.
But let's be fair.
Colleges' intentions are good.
They use affirmative action to
craft diverse
classes because we all benefit
from exposure
to people of different races and
backgrounds.
I strongly agree with this.
Would I have preferred to go to
a Yale that
was predominantly Asian?
Absolutely not.
So, I support affirmative
action.
But I also know we could do it
better.
We should assist students based
on socioeconomic
disadvantage, no matter their
race.
There are rural white kids who
deserve special
preference, but aren't getting
it.
There are affluent minority
students who may
not need that help to succeed.
Doing this wouldn't make sense
if it reduced
racial diversity.
But it doesn't have to.
A detailed study of colleges
that switched
to socioeconomic factors showed
the majority
had stable or increased black
and Hispanic
enrollment.
One student I interviewed worked
at a fast-food
restaurant to help support her
family.
Another had to care for two
younger siblings,
an obligation that prevented him
from doing
extracurricular activities.
I could tell you their races,
but should it
matter?
You can't judge someone's
accomplishments
until you appreciate the
obstacles overcome
to achieve them.
And if this could be a better
way of doing
affirmative action, rather than
simply looking
at someone's skin color or a box
they check,
maybe we should give it a try.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Dr. Andrew Lam.
And an update before we go.
There are reports tonight that
terrorists
are developing a bomb small
enough to fit
in a computer laptop.
U.S. intelligence officials told
multiple
news outlets that the device
could get past
airport scanners.
Earlier this month, the Homeland
Security
Department banned devices larger
than a cell
phone on certain incoming
flights from international
airports.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.
END